Suppose Texas Standards provides for basic APIs to monopoly timers on Unix compliance platforms, our
operating system, the first API is to create a timer.
This API does nothing but simply create a timer data structure.
It do not run or fire or trigger the timer or simply create a data structure called timer thrip.
The second actually is used to start and stop the timer, depending on the argument pass to disappear
API, the third API returns the time that is remaining for the timer to fire, and the fourth API is
simply to delete the timer when you are done with the timer.
So you can see that these four APIs are not simple and straightforward and is quite intuitive.
We will use these four APIs as building blocks to build our own custom timer library.
We will going to discuss how to use each of these four APIs in detail in the upcoming lecture videos.
So before going forward, let us get ourselves familiar with some terminology so that we do not confuse
ourselves in our discussion.
So terminologies means what does it mean when I start the timer alarm, the timer fires the timer or
expires the timer?
So suppose your application wants to send a network packet after 10 seconds from now, right?
So at time T is equal to zero.
Your application create timer data structure and actually start the timer.
So we say that we have started the timer or we have alarm the timer.
Right.
And when the ten seconds have elapsed then we see that the timer has fired or the timer has expired
and our application will send out the network packet.
Right.
So not this time, starting the timer or allowing the timer means we have started the countdown of the
timer and when we say fire the timer or expire the timer, then we literally means that the timer has
performed the action, which it is supposed to perform.